.TH ESS 1 "20 January 1993"
.SH NAME
ess \- Extensible Services Switch configuration of Rosette
.SH SYNOPSIS
.in +.5i
.ti -.5i
.B ess
\%[\-help\0{\fIflag\fR}]
\%[\-nodocs]
\%[\-load\0\fIfilename\fR]
\%[\-prompt\0\fIstring\fR]
\%[\-comm]
\%[\-client]
\%[\-tcpport\0\fIport\fR]
\%[\-rosetteport\0\fIport\fR]
\%[\-dblient]
\%[\-dbclientport\0\fIport\fR]
\%[\-SSoff]
\%[\-SSon]
\%[\-remote\0\fIinitiator\fR]
\%[\-tid\0\fIinteger\fR]
\%[\-tss]
\%[\-tssport\0\fIport\fR]
\%[\-tsclient]
\%[\-tsclientport\0\fIport\fR]
\%[\-isodetailor\0\fIpath\fR]
\%[\-acse]
\%[\-osionly]
\%[\-tcponly]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fIess\fR program is a configuration of \fIrosette\fR that provides
interfaces to many different communication facilities.
.PP
The \fIess\fR runs on Sun3, Sun4, HP700/800, Dec5100, Silicon
Graphics, and 386/486 System V Release 4 platforms with Isode 7.0 or later.
To terminate \fIess\fR enter \fB(quit)\fR or \fB(exit)\fR.
.PP
The `\-help' flags lists the available flags.  If an optional flag is
mentioned then a brief explanation of the flag is reported.
.PP
The `\-nodocs' flag suppresses the retention of on-line documentation.
.PP
The `\-load' flag directs \fIess\fR to load a \fB.rbl\fR file before
performing any restart processing.
.PP
The `\-prompt' flag takes a \fIstring\fR which becomes the prompt for the
\fIess\fR console listener.  It is usually used when building a
new configuration to set the default prompt for the configuration.
.PP
The `\-comm' flag is used to enable asynchronous communications.  Without
this flag not even stdin will be asynchronous
.PP
The `\-client' flag enables listening on both TcpStreams and
RosetteStreams.
.PP
The `\-tcpport' flag is used to listen on \fIport\fR for tcpStreams if
`\-client' is present on the command line.
.PP
The `\-rosetteport' flag is used to listen on \fIport\fR for RosetteStreams
if `\-client' is present on the command line.
.PP
The `\-dbclient' flag enables listening for DbClients of the \fIess\fR.
DbClients contact an \fIess\fR via the SQL Access Group Call Level
Interface.
.PP
The `\-dbclientport' flag is used to listen on \fIport\fR for DbClients
if `\-client' is present on the command line.
.PP
The `\-SSoff' and `\-SSon' flags disable and enable Synchronize Store
points during network interactions.  This is a debugging facility used
by the developers.
.PP
The `\-remote' flag is used to specify the \fIinitiator\fR which is a host
supporting an \fIess\fR to which this \fIess\fR should establish a tree space
connection after restart initialization is complete.
.PP
The `\-tid' flag supplies an \fIinteger\fR that is used by the `\-remote'
\fIinitiator\fR to distinguish which remote \fIess\fR instance is connecting.
.PP
The `\-tss' flag causes the \fIess\fR to listen for incoming tree space
connections.
.PP
The `\-tssport' flag causes the \fIess\fR to listen on \fIport\fR for
TreeSpace Service connections from other \fIess\fRs if `\-tss' is present
on the command line.
.PP
The `\-tsclient' flag enables listening for incoming connections to tree
space from external client processes.
.PP
The `\-tsclientport' flag directs the \fIess\fR to listen on \fIport\fR for
TreeSpace clients if `\-tsclient' is present on the command line.
.PP
The `\-isodetailor' flag identifies the \fIpath\fR where to load the
isodetailor file from.  The default is $ESS_SYSDIR/`carch`/etc/isodetailor.
.PP
The `\-acse' flag, if present, requests the \fIess\fR to establish listeners
for incoming \fBA-Associate.rqsts\fR on defined TCP and ISO TP\fIx\fR
ports/tsels.
.PP
The `\-osionly' flag, if present, together with `\-acse' listens only on
the defined tsel for TP\fIx\fR.
.PP
The `\-tcponly' flag, if present, together with `\-acse' listens only on
the defined port for TCP.
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta \w'\fImodule\fR.rbl  'u
\fIfile\fR.rbl	external program definitions
\fIfile\fR.module	module definition of other modules and files
.re
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
rosette(1), rosh(1),
.br
\fIThe Rosette Chronicles: A User's Manual\fR: Dallas Webster,
.br
\fIThe Rosette 1.1 Report\fR
.SH AUTHORS
Christine Tomlinson, Greg Meredith, Darrell Woelk, Greg Lavender:
.br
Projet Carnot - MCC
.br

.br
Mark Scheevel:
.br
UNISQL
.SH BUGS
Occasionally Rosette demonstrates its untoward independence by
producing a seg fault or bus error if provoked through the foreign
language interface or a very rare garbage collection error.

