.TH ROSETTE 1 "20 January 1993"
.SH NAME
rosette \- Actor-oriented language processor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.in +.5i
.ti -.5i
.B rosette
\%[\-help\0{\fIflag\fR}]
\%[\-nodocs]
\%[\-load\0\fIfilename\fR]
\%[\-prompt\0\fIstring\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fIrosette\fR program is an Actor-oriented language processor that
features: multiple-inheritance, structural and behavioral reflection,
and extensive foreign language integration facilities.  The syntax is
similar to Lisp or Scheme.
.PP
The \fIrosette\fR runs on Sun3, Sun4, HP700/800, Dec5100, Silicon
Graphics, and 386/486 System V Release 4 platforms with Isode 7.0 or later.
To terminate \fIrosette\fR enter \fB(quit)\fR or \fB(exit)\fR.
.PP
The `\-help' flags lists the available flags.  If an optional \fIflag\fR is
present then a brief explanation of the \fIflag\fR is displayed.
.PP
The `\-nodocs' flag suppresses the retention of on-line documentation.
.PP
The `\-load' flag directs \fIrosette\fR to load a \fB.rbl\fR before
performing any restart processing.
.PP
The `\-prompt' flag takes a \fIstring\fR which becomes the prompt for the
\fIrosette\fR console listener.  It is usually used when building a
new configuration to set the default prompt for the configuration.
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta \w'\fIfile\fR.rbl  'u
\fIfile\fR.rbl	external program definitions
.re
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
rosh(1), ess(1),
.br
\fIThe Rosette Chronicles: A User's Manual\fR: Dallas Webster,
.br
\fIThe Rosette 1.1 Report\fR
.SH AUTHORS
Christine Tomlinson, Greg Meredith, Darrell Woelk, Greg Lavender:
.br
Projet Carnot - MCC
.br

.br
Mark Scheevel:
.br
UNISQL
.SH BUGS
Occasionally Rosette demonstrates its untoward independence by
producing a seg fault or bus error if provoked through the foreign
language interface or a very rare garbage collection error.
