.TH ROSH 1 "20 January 1993"
.SH NAME
rosh \- Shell configuration of Rosette
.SH SYNOPSIS
.in +.5i
.ti -.5i
.B rosh
\%[\-help\0{\fIflag\fR}]
\%[\-nodocs]
\%[\-load\0\fIfilename\fR]
\%[\-prompt\0\fIstring\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fIrosh\fR program is a configuration of \fIrosette\fR that provides
interfaces to many common Unix system calls.
.PP
The \fIrosh\fR runs on Sun3, Sun4, HP700/800, Dec5100, Silicon
Graphics, and 386/486 System V Release 4 platforms.
To terminate \fIrosh\fR enter \fB(quit)\fR or \fB(exit)\fR.
.PP
The `\-help' flags lists the available flags.  If an optional \fIflag\fR is
mentioned then a brief explanation of the \fIflag\fR is displayed.
.PP
The `\-nodocs' flag suppresses the retention of on-line documentation.
.PP
The `\-load' flag directs \fIrosh\fR to load a \fB.rbl\fR before
performing any restart processing.
.PP
The `\-prompt' flag takes a \fIstring\fR which becomes the prompt for the
\fIrosh\fR console listener.  It is usually used when building a
new configuration to set the default prompt for the configuration.
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta \w'\fImodule\fR.rbl  'u
\fIfile\fR.rbl	external program definitions
\fIfile\fR.module	module definition of other modules and files
.re
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
rosette(1), ess(1),
.br
\fIThe Rosette Chronicles: A User's Manual\fR: Dallas Webster,
.br
\fIThe Rosette 1.1 Report\fR
.SH AUTHORS
Christine Tomlinson, Greg Meredith, Darrell Woelk, Greg Lavender:
.br
Projet Carnot - MCC
.br

.br
Mark Scheevel:
.br
UNISQL
.SH BUGS
Occasionally Rosette demonstrates its untoward independence by
producing a seg fault or bus error if provoked through the foreign
language interface or a very rare garbage collection error.
.PP
Eventually Rosh should use POSIX compliant definitions for its shell
interface.
